README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://www.fastflowlm.com" target="_blank">
    <img src="assets/logo.png" alt="FastFlowLM Logo" width="200"/>
  </a>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/NPU-Optimized-red" />
</p>

Run large language models on AMD Ryzen™ AI NPUs — in minutes.

FastFlowLM is a lightweight runtime for deploying LLMs like LLaMA3.1/3.2, Qwen3, DeepSeek-R1 and Gemma3 (Vision is now supported) directly on AMD’s NPU — no GPU needed, faster and over 11x more power efficient than the iGPU or hybrid (iGPU+NPU) solutions.

FastFlowLM supports full context lengths — up to 128K tokens with LLaMA 3.1/3.2 and Gemma3:4B.

**Just like Ollama — but purpose-built and deeply optimized for the Ryzen™ AI NPU**

> FastFlowLM supports all Ryzen™ AI Series chips with XDNA2 NPUs (Strix, Strix Halo, and Kraken).

🔧 **Download:** [flm-setup.exe](https://github.com/FastFlowLM/FastFlowLM/releases/latest/download/flm-setup.exe)  
📘 **Documentation:** [docs.fastflowlm.com](https://docs.fastflowlm.com)  
💬 **Discord Server:** [discord.gg/z24t23HsHF](https://discord.gg/z24t23HsHF)  
📺 **YouTube Demos:** [youtube.com/@FastFlowLM-YT](https://www.youtube.com/@FastFlowLM-YT)  
🧪 **Test Drive (Remote Machine):** [open-webui.testdrive-fastflowlm.com](https://open-webui.testdrive-fastflowlm.com/)

---

## 📺 Demo Videos

<!-- **🎥 Check out our demo videos!**   -->
From the new **Gemma3:4b vision (first NPU-only VLM)** model to the **think/no_think Qwen3**, **4-power-mode operation**, and head-to-head comparisons with **Ollama, LM Studio, Lemonade**, and more — it’s all [up on YouTube](https://youtu.be/9QipiMg5Yz8?list=PLf87s9UUZrJp4r3JM4NliPEsYuJNNqFAJ)!


<!-- FastFlowLM vs AMD’s official stack (Ryzen™ AI software 1.4) — **real-time speedup and power efficiency**: 

- Same prompt (length: 1835 tokens), same model (LLaMA 3.2 1B model; weights int4; activation bf16), running on the same machine (AMD Ryzen™ AI 5 340 NPU with 32 GB SO-DIMM DDR5 5600 MHz memory)
- Real-time CPU, iGPU, NPU usage, and power consumption shown (Windows task manager + HWINFO)

<table>
  <tr>
    <td valign="top">
      <h4>🔹 FastFlowLM vs Ryzen™ AI SW 1.4 (NPU-only)</h4>
      <a href="https://youtu.be/kv31FZ_q0_I?list=PLf87s9UUZrJp4r3JM4NliPEsYuJNNqFAJ">
        <img src="https://img.youtube.com/vi/kv31FZ_q0_I/0.jpg" alt="Demo: FastFlowLM vs OGA" width="320">
      </a>
    </td>
    <td valign="top">
      <h4>🔹 FastFlowLM vs Ryzen™ AI SW 1.4 (Hybrid)</h4>
      <a href="https://youtu.be/PFjH-L_Kr0w?list=PLf87s9UUZrJp4r3JM4NliPEsYuJNNqFAJ">
        <img src="https://img.youtube.com/vi/PFjH-L_Kr0w/0.jpg" alt="Demo: FastFlowLM vs GAIA" width="320">
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table> -->

<!-- 🎥 Demo videos (e.g., the new gemma3:4b visoin, think/no_think qwen3 model, 4 power mode operation, etc.) and comparisons with Ollama, LM Studio, Lemonade, etc. can be found [here on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OZuLQcmFe9A&list=PLf87s9UUZrJp4r3JM4NliPEsYuJNNqFAJ). -->

---

## 🧪 Test Drive (Remote Demo)

🚀 Don’t have a Ryzen™ AI PC? Instantly try FastFlowLM on a live AMD Ryzen™ AI 5 340 NPU with 32 GB memory ([spec](https://www.amazon.com/4X4-BOX-AI340-Display-Support-Copilot/dp/B0F2GFLF67/ref=sr_1_5?crid=1X16RDUCQ2497&dib=eyJ2IjoiMSJ9.C5GS4xMl_kkJ7Yr6dNFi6g.Dfj_l9Dk1yuIBjppqmKSqNAAPQc1F4Mu3zJ9-MDlszw&dib_tag=se&keywords=4x4+box+ai340&qid=1752010554&sprefix=www.amazon.com%2F4X4-BOX-AI340%2Caps%2C176&sr=8-5)) — no setup needed.  

✨ Now with **Gemma3:4b (the first NPU-only VLM!)** supported here.  

🌐 **Launch Now**: [https://open-webui.testdrive-fastflowlm.com/](https://open-webui.testdrive-fastflowlm.com/)  
🔐 **Login**: `guest@flm.npu`  
🔑 **Password**: `0000`

📺 [Watch this short video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0AhkX2ZLu7Y&list=PLf87s9UUZrJp4r3JM4NliPEsYuJNNqFAJ&index=2) to see how to try the remote demo in just a few clicks.

> Alternatively, **sign up** with your own credentials instead of using the shared guest account.
> ⚠️ Some universities or companies may **block access** to the test drive site. If it doesn't load over Wi-Fi, try switching to a **cellular network**.  
> Real-time demo powered by **FastFlowLM + Open WebUI** — no downloads, no installs.  
> Try optimized LLM models: `gemma3:4b`, `qwen3:4b`, etc. — all accelerated on NPU.

⚠️ **Please note**:  
- FastFlowLM is designed for **single-user local use**. This remote demo machine may experience short wait times when **multiple users** access it concurrently — please be patient.
- When switching models, it may take longer time to replace the model in memory.
- Large prompts (30k+ tokens) and VLM (gemma3:4b) may take longer — but it works! 🙂

---

## ⚡ Quick Start

A packaged Windows installer is available here: [**flm-setup.exe**](https://github.com/FastFlowLM/FastFlowLM/releases/latest/download/flm-setup.exe). For more details, see the [release notes](https://github.com/FastFlowLM/FastFlowLM/releases/).

📺 [Watch the quick start video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YkwFQ9-cc3I&list=PLf87s9UUZrJp4r3JM4NliPEsYuJNNqFAJ)

> ⚠️ Ensure NPU driver is **32.0.203.258** or later (check via Task Manager→Performance→NPU or Device Manager) — [Driver Download](https://www.amd.com/en/support).

After installation, open **PowerShell**. To run a model in terminal (CLI or Interactive Mode):
```
flm run llama3.2:1b
```
> Requires internet access to HuggingFace to pull (download) the optimized model kernel. The model will be downloaded to the folder: ``C:\Users\<USER>\Documents\flm\models\``. ⚠️ If HuggingFace is not directly accessible in your region, you can manually download the model and place it in this directory.

To start the local REST API server (Server Mode):
```
flm serve llama3.2:1b
```
> The model tag (e.g., `llama3.2:1b`) sets the initial model, which is optional. If another model is requested, FastFlowLM will automatically switch to it. Local server is on port 11434 (default).

For best performance, it is recommended to set the NPU power mode to **performance** or **turbo**. Open **PowerShell** and enter:
```powershell
cd C:\Windows\System32\AMD\; .\xrt-smi configure --pmode turbo
```
> For more details about NPU power mode, refer to the [AMD XRT SMI Documentation](https://ryzenai.docs.amd.com/en/latest/xrt_smi.html).

For detailed instructions, click [Documentation](https://docs.fastflowlm.com/).

---

## 🖼️ Vision Support for Gemma3:4b (VLM)  

FastFlowLM now supports **vision-language inference** with **Gemma3:4b**. ⚡ Quick start:  

After installation, open **PowerShell** and run:
```
flm run gemma3:4b
```

In CLI, attach an image:
```
/input "path/to/image.png" What's in this image?
```

> Supports **.png** and **.jpg** formats  

---

## 🧠 Local AI on Your NPU

FastFlowLM makes it easy to run cutting-edge **LLMs** (and now **VLMs** too ) locally with:
- ⚡ Fast and low power
- 🧰 Simple CLI and API
- 🔐 Fully private and offline

No model rewrites, no tuning — it just works.

---

## ✅ Features

- **Runs fully on AMD Ryzen™ AI NPU** — no GPU or CPU load  
- **Developer-first flow** — like Ollama, but optimized for NPU  
- **Support for long context windows** — up to 128k tokens (e.g., LLaMA 3.1/3.2, Gemma3:4B)  
- **No low-level tuning required** — You focus on your app, we handle the rest

---

## ⚡ Performance

<!-- Compared to AMD Ryzen™ AI Software 1.4 (GAIA or Lemonade):

### LLM Decoding Speed (TPS: Tokens per Second)
- 🚀 Up to **14.2× faster** vs NPU-only baseline  
- 🚀 Up to **16.2× faster** vs hybrid iGPU+NPU baseline

### Power Efficiency
- 🔋 Up to **2.66× more efficient in decoding** vs NPU-only  
- 🔋 Up to **11.38× more efficient in decoding** vs hybrid  
- 🔋 Up to **3.4× more efficient in prefill** vs NPU-only or hybrid

### Latency
- ⏱️ **Matches or exceeds** TTFT (Time to First Token) of NPU-only or hybrid mode -->

<!-- ### Benchmarks -->
<p style="font-size:85%; margin:0;">
📊 View the detailed results here:
<a href="https://docs.fastflowlm.com/benchmarks/" style="text-decoration:none;">
<strong>[Benchmark results]</strong>
</a>
</p>

---

## 🛠️ Instructions

[Documentation and examples](https://docs.fastflowlm.com/). Like Ollama, you can:
- Load and run models locally via CLI (Interactive Mode)
- Integrate into your app via a simple REST API via a local server (Server Mode)
> Compatible with tools like **Microsoft AI Toolkit**, **Open WebUI**, and more.

---

## 📄 License

- All orchestration code and CLI tools are open-source under the [MIT License](./LICENSE_RUNTIME.txt).
- NPU-accelerated kernels are **proprietary binaries**, free for **non-commercial use** only — see [LICENSE_BINARY.txt](./LICENSE_BINARY.txt) and [TERMS.md](./TERMS.md) for details.
- **Non-commercial users need to acknowledge FastFlowLM** by adding this line to your README or project page:  
  ```
  Powered by [FastFlowLM](https://github.com/FastFlowLM/FastFlowLM)
  ```
For commercial use or licensing inquiries, email us: info@fastflowlm.com

---

💬 **Have feedback or want early access to our new releases? [Open an issue](https://github.com/fastflowlm/fastflowlm/issues/new) or [Join our Discord community](https://discord.gg/z24t23HsHF)

---

## 🙏 Acknowledgements

- Powered by the advanced **AMD Ryzen™ AI NPU architecture**
- Inspired by the widely adopted [Ollama](https://github.com/ollama/ollama)
- Tokenization accelerated with [MLC-ai/tokenizers-cpp](https://github.com/mlc-ai/tokenizers-cpp)
- Chat formatting via [Google/minja](https://github.com/google/minja)
- Low-level kernels optimized using the powerful [IRON](https://github.com/Xilinx/mlir-aie/tree/main/programming_guide)+[AIE-MLIR](https://github.com/Xilinx/mlir-aie/tree/main/mlir_tutorials)

Commit message:

supported models added to the rm

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://www.fastflowlm.com" target="_blank">
    <img src="assets/logo.png" alt="FastFlowLM Logo" width="200"/>
  </a>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/NPU-Optimized-red" />
</p>

Run large language models on AMD Ryzen™ AI NPUs — in minutes.

FastFlowLM is a lightweight runtime for deploying LLMs like LLaMA3.1/3.2, Qwen3, DeepSeek-R1 and Gemma3 (Vision is now supported) directly on AMD’s NPU — no GPU needed, faster and over 11x more power efficient than the iGPU or hybrid (iGPU+NPU) solutions.

FastFlowLM supports full context lengths — up to 128K tokens with LLaMA 3.1/3.2 and Gemma3:4B.

**Just like Ollama — but purpose-built and deeply optimized for the Ryzen™ AI NPU**

> FastFlowLM supports all Ryzen™ AI Series chips with XDNA2 NPUs (Strix, Strix Halo, and Kraken).

🔧 **Download:** [flm-setup.exe](https://github.com/FastFlowLM/FastFlowLM/releases/latest/download/flm-setup.exe)  
📘 **Documentation:** [docs.fastflowlm.com](https://docs.fastflowlm.com)  
💬 **Discord Server:** [discord.gg/z24t23HsHF](https://discord.gg/z24t23HsHF)  
📺 **YouTube Demos:** [youtube.com/@FastFlowLM-YT](https://www.youtube.com/@FastFlowLM-YT)  
🧪 **Test Drive (Remote Machine):** [open-webui.testdrive-fastflowlm.com](https://open-webui.testdrive-fastflowlm.com/)

---

## 📺 Demo Videos

<!-- **🎥 Check out our demo videos!**   -->
From the new **Gemma3:4b vision (first NPU-only VLM)** model to the **think/no_think Qwen3**, **4-power-mode operation**, and head-to-head comparisons with **Ollama, LM Studio, Lemonade**, and more — it’s all [up on YouTube](https://youtu.be/9QipiMg5Yz8?list=PLf87s9UUZrJp4r3JM4NliPEsYuJNNqFAJ)!


<!-- FastFlowLM vs AMD’s official stack (Ryzen™ AI software 1.4) — **real-time speedup and power efficiency**: 

- Same prompt (length: 1835 tokens), same model (LLaMA 3.2 1B model; weights int4; activation bf16), running on the same machine (AMD Ryzen™ AI 5 340 NPU with 32 GB SO-DIMM DDR5 5600 MHz memory)
- Real-time CPU, iGPU, NPU usage, and power consumption shown (Windows task manager + HWINFO)

<table>
  <tr>
    <td valign="top">
      <h4>🔹 FastFlowLM vs Ryzen™ AI SW 1.4 (NPU-only)</h4>
      <a href="https://youtu.be/kv31FZ_q0_I?list=PLf87s9UUZrJp4r3JM4NliPEsYuJNNqFAJ">
        <img src="https://img.youtube.com/vi/kv31FZ_q0_I/0.jpg" alt="Demo: FastFlowLM vs OGA" width="320">
      </a>
    </td>
    <td valign="top">
      <h4>🔹 FastFlowLM vs Ryzen™ AI SW 1.4 (Hybrid)</h4>
      <a href="https://youtu.be/PFjH-L_Kr0w?list=PLf87s9UUZrJp4r3JM4NliPEsYuJNNqFAJ">
        <img src="https://img.youtube.com/vi/PFjH-L_Kr0w/0.jpg" alt="Demo: FastFlowLM vs GAIA" width="320">
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table> -->

<!-- 🎥 Demo videos (e.g., the new gemma3:4b visoin, think/no_think qwen3 model, 4 power mode operation, etc.) and comparisons with Ollama, LM Studio, Lemonade, etc. can be found [here on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OZuLQcmFe9A&list=PLf87s9UUZrJp4r3JM4NliPEsYuJNNqFAJ). -->

---

## 🧪 Test Drive (Remote Demo)

🚀 Don’t have a Ryzen™ AI PC? Instantly try FastFlowLM on a live AMD Ryzen™ AI 5 340 NPU with 32 GB memory ([spec](https://www.amazon.com/4X4-BOX-AI340-Display-Support-Copilot/dp/B0F2GFLF67/ref=sr_1_5?crid=1X16RDUCQ2497&dib=eyJ2IjoiMSJ9.C5GS4xMl_kkJ7Yr6dNFi6g.Dfj_l9Dk1yuIBjppqmKSqNAAPQc1F4Mu3zJ9-MDlszw&dib_tag=se&keywords=4x4+box+ai340&qid=1752010554&sprefix=www.amazon.com%2F4X4-BOX-AI340%2Caps%2C176&sr=8-5)) — no setup needed.  

✨ Now with **Gemma3:4b (the first NPU-only VLM!)** supported here.  

🌐 **Launch Now**: [https://open-webui.testdrive-fastflowlm.com/](https://open-webui.testdrive-fastflowlm.com/)  
🔐 **Login**: `guest@flm.npu`  
🔑 **Password**: `0000`

📺 [Watch this short video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0AhkX2ZLu7Y&list=PLf87s9UUZrJp4r3JM4NliPEsYuJNNqFAJ&index=2) to see how to try the remote demo in just a few clicks.

> Alternatively, **sign up** with your own credentials instead of using the shared guest account.
> ⚠️ Some universities or companies may **block access** to the test drive site. If it doesn't load over Wi-Fi, try switching to a **cellular network**.  
> Real-time demo powered by **FastFlowLM + Open WebUI** — no downloads, no installs.  
> Try optimized LLM models: `gemma3:4b`, `qwen3:4b`, etc. — all accelerated on NPU.

⚠️ **Please note**:  
- FastFlowLM is designed for **single-user local use**. This remote demo machine may experience short wait times when **multiple users** access it concurrently — please be patient.
- When switching models, it may take longer time to replace the model in memory.
- Large prompts (30k+ tokens) and VLM (gemma3:4b) may take longer — but it works! 🙂

---

## ⚡ Quick Start

A packaged Windows installer is available here: [**flm-setup.exe**](https://github.com/FastFlowLM/FastFlowLM/releases/latest/download/flm-setup.exe). For more details, see the [release notes](https://github.com/FastFlowLM/FastFlowLM/releases/).

📺 [Watch the quick start video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YkwFQ9-cc3I&list=PLf87s9UUZrJp4r3JM4NliPEsYuJNNqFAJ)

> ⚠️ Ensure NPU driver is **32.0.203.258** or later (check via Task Manager→Performance→NPU or Device Manager) — [Driver Download](https://www.amd.com/en/support).

After installation, open **PowerShell**. To run a model in terminal (CLI or Interactive Mode):
```
flm run llama3.2:1b
```
> Requires internet access to HuggingFace to pull (download) the optimized model kernel. The model will be downloaded to the folder: ``C:\Users\<USER>\Documents\flm\models\``. ⚠️ If HuggingFace is not directly accessible in your region, you can manually download the model and place it in this directory.

To start the local REST API server (Server Mode):
```
flm serve llama3.2:1b
```
> The model tag (e.g., `llama3.2:1b`) sets the initial model, which is optional. If another model is requested, FastFlowLM will automatically switch to it. Local server is on port 11434 (default).

For best performance, it is recommended to set the NPU power mode to **performance** or **turbo**. Open **PowerShell** and enter:
```powershell
cd C:\Windows\System32\AMD\; .\xrt-smi configure --pmode turbo
```
> For more details about NPU power mode, refer to the [AMD XRT SMI Documentation](https://ryzenai.docs.amd.com/en/latest/xrt_smi.html).

For detailed instructions, click [Documentation](https://docs.fastflowlm.com/).

---

## 🖼️ Vision Support for Gemma3:4b (VLM)  

FastFlowLM now supports **vision-language inference** with **Gemma3:4b**. ⚡ Quick start:  

After installation, open **PowerShell** and run:
```
flm run gemma3:4b
```

In CLI, attach an image:
```
/input "path/to/image.png" What's in this image?
```

> Supports **.png** and **.jpg** formats  

---

## 📚 Supported Models by FastFlowLM (FLM)

Check the full list here:
👉 https://docs.fastflowlm.com/models/

---

## 🧠 Local AI on Your NPU

FastFlowLM makes it easy to run cutting-edge **LLMs** (and now **VLMs** too ) locally with:
- ⚡ Fast and low power
- 🧰 Simple CLI and API
- 🔐 Fully private and offline

No model rewrites, no tuning — it just works.

---

## ✅ Features

- **Runs fully on AMD Ryzen™ AI NPU** — no GPU or CPU load  
- **Developer-first flow** — like Ollama, but optimized for NPU  
- **Support for long context windows** — up to 128k tokens (e.g., LLaMA 3.1/3.2, Gemma3:4B)  
- **No low-level tuning required** — You focus on your app, we handle the rest

---

## ⚡ Performance

<!-- Compared to AMD Ryzen™ AI Software 1.4 (GAIA or Lemonade):

### LLM Decoding Speed (TPS: Tokens per Second)
- 🚀 Up to **14.2× faster** vs NPU-only baseline  
- 🚀 Up to **16.2× faster** vs hybrid iGPU+NPU baseline

### Power Efficiency
- 🔋 Up to **2.66× more efficient in decoding** vs NPU-only  
- 🔋 Up to **11.38× more efficient in decoding** vs hybrid  
- 🔋 Up to **3.4× more efficient in prefill** vs NPU-only or hybrid

### Latency
- ⏱️ **Matches or exceeds** TTFT (Time to First Token) of NPU-only or hybrid mode -->

<!-- ### Benchmarks -->
<p style="font-size:85%; margin:0;">
📊 View the detailed results here:
<a href="https://docs.fastflowlm.com/benchmarks/" style="text-decoration:none;">
<strong>[Benchmark results]</strong>
</a>
</p>

---

## 🛠️ Instructions

[Documentation and examples](https://docs.fastflowlm.com/). Like Ollama, you can:
- Load and run models locally via CLI (Interactive Mode)
- Integrate into your app via a simple REST API via a local server (Server Mode)
> Compatible with tools like **Microsoft AI Toolkit**, **Open WebUI**, and more.

---

## 📄 License

- All orchestration code and CLI tools are open-source under the [MIT License](./LICENSE_RUNTIME.txt).
- NPU-accelerated kernels are **proprietary binaries**, free for **non-commercial use** only — see [LICENSE_BINARY.txt](./LICENSE_BINARY.txt) and [TERMS.md](./TERMS.md) for details.
- **Non-commercial users need to acknowledge FastFlowLM** by adding this line to your README or project page:  
  ```
  Powered by [FastFlowLM](https://github.com/FastFlowLM/FastFlowLM)
  ```
For commercial use or licensing inquiries, email us: info@fastflowlm.com

---

💬 **Have feedback or want early access to our new releases? [Open an issue](https://github.com/fastflowlm/fastflowlm/issues/new) or [Join our Discord community](https://discord.gg/z24t23HsHF)

---

## 🙏 Acknowledgements

- Powered by the advanced **AMD Ryzen™ AI NPU architecture**
- Inspired by the widely adopted [Ollama](https://github.com/ollama/ollama)
- Tokenization accelerated with [MLC-ai/tokenizers-cpp](https://github.com/mlc-ai/tokenizers-cpp)
- Chat formatting via [Google/minja](https://github.com/google/minja)
- Low-level kernels optimized using the powerful [IRON](https://github.com/Xilinx/mlir-aie/tree/main/programming_guide)+[AIE-MLIR](https://github.com/Xilinx/mlir-aie/tree/main/mlir_tutorials)
